docs/aws-s3-integration.md, before:

### Use AWS:S3 As Storage

The example below shows how to store and serve uploaded file via S3. This also covers removing the files from S3 when removed from *FilesCollection*.

First, install aws-sdk [Official AWS SDK Docs](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html)
```shell
npm install --save aws-sdk
```
Or:
```shell
meteor npm install --save aws-sdk
```

Typical regions are these, see full list at AWS S3 console. *Every region is supported.*
 * US Standard (default): `us-standard`
 * US West (Oregon): `us-west-2`
 * US West (Northern California): `us-west-1`
 * EU (Ireland): `eu-west-1`
 * Asia Pacific (Singapore): `ap-southeast-1`
 * Asia Pacific (Tokyo): `ap-northeast-1`
 * South America (Sao Paulo): `sa-east-1`


Prepare: Get access to AWS S3:
 - Go to http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ (*Sign(in|up) if required*)
 - Follow the steps from [this procedure - (to the step where policy and user is created)](https://vincetocco.com/backup-your-servers-automatically-to-amazon-aws-s3/)
    * Create an S3 bucket in preferred region
    * Get an "Access Key Id" and "Secret Key"

### Settings.json
First, create the `settings.json` file and add AWS:S3 credentials to it:

Use it with: `meteor --settings settings.json`
```jsx
{
  "s3": {
    "key": "AWSKEY",
    "secret": "AWSSECRET",
    "bucket": "BUCKETNAME",
    "region": "us-west-1"
  }
}
```

### Use environment variable to set settings
Instead of using `settings.json`, - environment variable can be used:
```js
// env.var example: S3='{"s3":{"key": "xxx", "secret": "xxx", "bucket": "xxx", "region": "xxx""}}'
if (process.env.S3) {
  Meteor.settings.s3 = JSON.parse(process.env.S3).s3;
}
```

### Server-side-file-store.js
Use this at Meteor's `imports/server` directory, __NOT__ the client
```jsx
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor';
import { _ } from 'meteor/underscore';
import { Random } from 'meteor/random';
import { FilesCollection } from 'meteor/ostrio:files';
import stream from 'stream';

import S3 from 'aws-sdk/clients/s3'; // http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html
// See fs-extra and graceful-fs NPM packages
// For better i/o performance
import fs from 'fs';

// Example: S3='{"s3":{"key": "xxx", "secret": "xxx", "bucket": "xxx", "region": "xxx""}}' meteor
if (process.env.S3) {
  Meteor.settings.s3 = JSON.parse(process.env.S3).s3;
}

const s3Conf = Meteor.settings.s3 || {};
const bound  = Meteor.bindEnvironment((callback) => {
  return callback();
});

// Check settings existence in `Meteor.settings`
// This is the best practice for app security
if (s3Conf && s3Conf.key && s3Conf.secret && s3Conf.bucket && s3Conf.region) {
  // Create a new S3 object
  const s3 = new S3({
    secretAccessKey: s3Conf.secret,
    accessKeyId: s3Conf.key,
    region: s3Conf.region,
    // sslEnabled: true, // optional
    httpOptions: {
      timeout: 6000,
      agent: false
    }
  });

  // Declare the Meteor file collection on the Server
  const UserFiles = new FilesCollection({
    debug: false, // Change to `true` for debugging
    storagePath: 'assets/app/uploads/uploadedFiles',
    collectionName: 'userFiles',
    // Disallow Client to execute remove, use the Meteor.method
    allowClientCode: false,

    // Start moving files to AWS:S3
    // after fully received by the Meteor server
    onAfterUpload(fileRef) {
      // Run through each of the uploaded file
      _.each(fileRef.versions, (vRef, version) => {
        // We use Random.id() instead of real file's _id
        // to secure files from reverse engineering on the AWS client
        const filePath = 'files/' + (Random.id()) + '-' + version + '.' + fileRef.extension;

        // Create the AWS:S3 object.
        // Feel free to change the storage class from, see the documentation,
        // `STANDARD_IA` is the best deal for low access files.
        // Key is the file name we are creating on AWS:S3, so it will be like files/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX-original.XXXX
        // Body is the file stream we are sending to AWS
        s3.putObject({
          // ServerSideEncryption: 'AES256', // Optional
          StorageClass: 'STANDARD',
          Bucket: s3Conf.bucket,
          Key: filePath,
          Body: fs.createReadStream(vRef.path),
          ContentType: vRef.type,
        }, (error) => {
          bound(() => {
            if (error) {
              console.error(error);
            } else {
              // Update FilesCollection with link to the file at AWS
              const upd = { $set: {} };
              upd['$set']['versions.' + version + '.meta.pipePath'] = filePath;

              this.collection.update({
                _id: fileRef._id
              }, upd, (updError) => {
                if (updError) {
                  console.error(updError);
                } else {
                  // Unlink original files from FS after successful upload to AWS:S3
                  this.unlink(this.collection.findOne(fileRef._id), version);
                }
              });
            }
          });
        });
      });
    },


    // Intercept access to the file
    // And redirect request to AWS:S3
    interceptDownload(http, fileRef, version) {
      let path;

      if (fileRef && fileRef.versions && fileRef.versions[version] && fileRef.versions[version].meta && fileRef.versions[version].meta.pipePath) {
        path = fileRef.versions[version].meta.pipePath;
      }

      if (path) {
        // If file is successfully moved to AWS:S3
        // We will pipe request to AWS:S3
        // So, original link will stay always secure

        // To force ?play and ?download parameters
        // and to keep original file name, content-type,
        // content-disposition, chunked "streaming" and cache-control
        // we're using low-level .serve() method
        const opts = {
          Bucket: s3Conf.bucket,
          Key: path
        };

        if (http.request.headers.range) {
          const vRef  = fileRef.versions[version];
          let range   = _.clone(http.request.headers.range);
          const array = range.split(/bytes=([0-9]*)-([0-9]*)/);
          const start = parseInt(array[1]);
          let end     = parseInt(array[2]);
          if (isNaN(end)) {
            // Request data from AWS:S3 by small chunks
            end       = (start + this.chunkSize) - 1;
            if (end >= vRef.size) {
              end     = vRef.size - 1;
            }
          }
          opts.Range   = `bytes=${start}-${end}`;
          http.request.headers.range = `bytes=${start}-${end}`;
        }

        const fileColl = this;
        s3.getObject(opts, function (error) {
          if (error) {
            console.error(error);
            if (!http.response.finished) {
              http.response.end();
            }
          } else {
            if (http.request.headers.range && this.httpResponse.headers['content-range']) {
              // Set proper range header in according to what is returned from AWS:S3
              http.request.headers.range = this.httpResponse.headers['content-range'].split('/')[0].replace('bytes ', 'bytes=');
            }

            const dataStream = new stream.PassThrough();
            fileColl.serve(http, fileRef, fileRef.versions[version], version, dataStream);
            dataStream.end(this.data.Body);
          }
        });

        return true;
      }
      // While file is not yet uploaded to AWS:S3
      // It will be served file from FS
      return false;
    }
  });

  // Intercept FilesCollection's remove method to remove file from AWS:S3
  const _origRemove = UserFiles.remove;
  UserFiles.remove = function (search) {
    const cursor = this.collection.find(search);
    cursor.forEach((fileRef) => {
      _.each(fileRef.versions, (vRef) => {
        if (vRef && vRef.meta && vRef.meta.pipePath) {
          // Remove the object from AWS:S3 first, then we will call the original FilesCollection remove
          s3.deleteObject({
            Bucket: s3Conf.bucket,
            Key: vRef.meta.pipePath,
          }, (error) => {
            bound(() => {
              if (error) {
                console.error(error);
              }
            });
          });
        }
      });
    });

    //remove original file from database
    _origRemove.call(this, search);
  };
} else {
  throw new Meteor.Error(401, 'Missing Meteor file settings');
}
```

### Further image (JPEG, PNG) processing with AWS Lambda

The basic concept: you already have a storage folder that you use for storage above. We are going to set a Lambda "listener"
 on that folder and for each file saved into (plus any other condition you wish), we will save a thumb into another folder.

First, sign in to your AWS console and select your region from the top bar. Go to your Lambda dashboard and create a new function.

Add a trigger for every new file created under your prefered folder. Then add the "Function Code". The code will be your xxx.js file together witht the node_modules folder used by your xxx.js file. Please note that your Lambda function will need to have the same name as your xxx.js file (e.g.  JS file name: ImageResizer.js will require the Lambda function name/handler ImageResizer.handler.

Commit message:

Added details of official Lambda resizer.

docs/aws-s3-integration.md, after:

### Use AWS:S3 As Storage

The example below shows how to store and serve uploaded file via S3. This also covers removing the files from S3 when removed from *FilesCollection*.

First, install aws-sdk [Official AWS SDK Docs](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html)
```shell
npm install --save aws-sdk
```
Or:
```shell
meteor npm install --save aws-sdk
```

Typical regions are these, see full list at AWS S3 console. *Every region is supported.*
 * US Standard (default): `us-standard`
 * US West (Oregon): `us-west-2`
 * US West (Northern California): `us-west-1`
 * EU (Ireland): `eu-west-1`
 * Asia Pacific (Singapore): `ap-southeast-1`
 * Asia Pacific (Tokyo): `ap-northeast-1`
 * South America (Sao Paulo): `sa-east-1`


Prepare: Get access to AWS S3:
 - Go to http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ (*Sign(in|up) if required*)
 - Follow the steps from [this procedure - (to the step where policy and user is created)](https://vincetocco.com/backup-your-servers-automatically-to-amazon-aws-s3/)
    * Create an S3 bucket in preferred region
    * Get an "Access Key Id" and "Secret Key"

### Settings.json
First, create the `settings.json` file and add AWS:S3 credentials to it:

Use it with: `meteor --settings settings.json`
```jsx
{
  "s3": {
    "key": "AWSKEY",
    "secret": "AWSSECRET",
    "bucket": "BUCKETNAME",
    "region": "us-west-1"
  }
}
```

### Use environment variable to set settings
Instead of using `settings.json`, - environment variable can be used:
```js
// env.var example: S3='{"s3":{"key": "xxx", "secret": "xxx", "bucket": "xxx", "region": "xxx""}}'
if (process.env.S3) {
  Meteor.settings.s3 = JSON.parse(process.env.S3).s3;
}
```

### Server-side-file-store.js
Use this at Meteor's `imports/server` directory, __NOT__ the client
```jsx
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor';
import { _ } from 'meteor/underscore';
import { Random } from 'meteor/random';
import { FilesCollection } from 'meteor/ostrio:files';
import stream from 'stream';

import S3 from 'aws-sdk/clients/s3'; // http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html
// See fs-extra and graceful-fs NPM packages
// For better i/o performance
import fs from 'fs';

// Example: S3='{"s3":{"key": "xxx", "secret": "xxx", "bucket": "xxx", "region": "xxx""}}' meteor
if (process.env.S3) {
  Meteor.settings.s3 = JSON.parse(process.env.S3).s3;
}

const s3Conf = Meteor.settings.s3 || {};
const bound  = Meteor.bindEnvironment((callback) => {
  return callback();
});

// Check settings existence in `Meteor.settings`
// This is the best practice for app security
if (s3Conf && s3Conf.key && s3Conf.secret && s3Conf.bucket && s3Conf.region) {
  // Create a new S3 object
  const s3 = new S3({
    secretAccessKey: s3Conf.secret,
    accessKeyId: s3Conf.key,
    region: s3Conf.region,
    // sslEnabled: true, // optional
    httpOptions: {
      timeout: 6000,
      agent: false
    }
  });

  // Declare the Meteor file collection on the Server
  const UserFiles = new FilesCollection({
    debug: false, // Change to `true` for debugging
    storagePath: 'assets/app/uploads/uploadedFiles',
    collectionName: 'userFiles',
    // Disallow Client to execute remove, use the Meteor.method
    allowClientCode: false,

    // Start moving files to AWS:S3
    // after fully received by the Meteor server
    onAfterUpload(fileRef) {
      // Run through each of the uploaded file
      _.each(fileRef.versions, (vRef, version) => {
        // We use Random.id() instead of real file's _id
        // to secure files from reverse engineering on the AWS client
        const filePath = 'files/' + (Random.id()) + '-' + version + '.' + fileRef.extension;

        // Create the AWS:S3 object.
        // Feel free to change the storage class from, see the documentation,
        // `STANDARD_IA` is the best deal for low access files.
        // Key is the file name we are creating on AWS:S3, so it will be like files/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX-original.XXXX
        // Body is the file stream we are sending to AWS
        s3.putObject({
          // ServerSideEncryption: 'AES256', // Optional
          StorageClass: 'STANDARD',
          Bucket: s3Conf.bucket,
          Key: filePath,
          Body: fs.createReadStream(vRef.path),
          ContentType: vRef.type,
        }, (error) => {
          bound(() => {
            if (error) {
              console.error(error);
            } else {
              // Update FilesCollection with link to the file at AWS
              const upd = { $set: {} };
              upd['$set']['versions.' + version + '.meta.pipePath'] = filePath;

              this.collection.update({
                _id: fileRef._id
              }, upd, (updError) => {
                if (updError) {
                  console.error(updError);
                } else {
                  // Unlink original files from FS after successful upload to AWS:S3
                  this.unlink(this.collection.findOne(fileRef._id), version);
                }
              });
            }
          });
        });
      });
    },


    // Intercept access to the file
    // And redirect request to AWS:S3
    interceptDownload(http, fileRef, version) {
      let path;

      if (fileRef && fileRef.versions && fileRef.versions[version] && fileRef.versions[version].meta && fileRef.versions[version].meta.pipePath) {
        path = fileRef.versions[version].meta.pipePath;
      }

      if (path) {
        // If file is successfully moved to AWS:S3
        // We will pipe request to AWS:S3
        // So, original link will stay always secure

        // To force ?play and ?download parameters
        // and to keep original file name, content-type,
        // content-disposition, chunked "streaming" and cache-control
        // we're using low-level .serve() method
        const opts = {
          Bucket: s3Conf.bucket,
          Key: path
        };

        if (http.request.headers.range) {
          const vRef  = fileRef.versions[version];
          let range   = _.clone(http.request.headers.range);
          const array = range.split(/bytes=([0-9]*)-([0-9]*)/);
          const start = parseInt(array[1]);
          let end     = parseInt(array[2]);
          if (isNaN(end)) {
            // Request data from AWS:S3 by small chunks
            end       = (start + this.chunkSize) - 1;
            if (end >= vRef.size) {
              end     = vRef.size - 1;
            }
          }
          opts.Range   = `bytes=${start}-${end}`;
          http.request.headers.range = `bytes=${start}-${end}`;
        }

        const fileColl = this;
        s3.getObject(opts, function (error) {
          if (error) {
            console.error(error);
            if (!http.response.finished) {
              http.response.end();
            }
          } else {
            if (http.request.headers.range && this.httpResponse.headers['content-range']) {
              // Set proper range header in according to what is returned from AWS:S3
              http.request.headers.range = this.httpResponse.headers['content-range'].split('/')[0].replace('bytes ', 'bytes=');
            }

            const dataStream = new stream.PassThrough();
            fileColl.serve(http, fileRef, fileRef.versions[version], version, dataStream);
            dataStream.end(this.data.Body);
          }
        });

        return true;
      }
      // While file is not yet uploaded to AWS:S3
      // It will be served file from FS
      return false;
    }
  });

  // Intercept FilesCollection's remove method to remove file from AWS:S3
  const _origRemove = UserFiles.remove;
  UserFiles.remove = function (search) {
    const cursor = this.collection.find(search);
    cursor.forEach((fileRef) => {
      _.each(fileRef.versions, (vRef) => {
        if (vRef && vRef.meta && vRef.meta.pipePath) {
          // Remove the object from AWS:S3 first, then we will call the original FilesCollection remove
          s3.deleteObject({
            Bucket: s3Conf.bucket,
            Key: vRef.meta.pipePath,
          }, (error) => {
            bound(() => {
              if (error) {
                console.error(error);
              }
            });
          });
        }
      });
    });

    //remove original file from database
    _origRemove.call(this, search);
  };
} else {
  throw new Meteor.Error(401, 'Missing Meteor file settings');
}
```

### Further image (JPEG, PNG) processing with AWS Lambda

The basic concept: you already have a storage folder that you use for storage above. We are going to set a Lambda "listener"
 on that folder and for each file saved into (plus any other condition you wish), we will save a thumb into another folder.

First, sign in to your AWS console and select your region from the top bar. Go to your Lambda dashboard and create a new function.

Add a trigger for every new file created under your prefered folder. Then add the "Function Code". The code will be your xxx.js file zipped together with the node_modules folder used by your xxx.js file. Please note that your Lambda function will need to have the same name as your xxx.js file (e.g.  JS file name: ImageResizer.js will require the Lambda function name/handler ImageResizer.handler. Upload your ZIP file.

## Your resized JS file

We will be using two differents methods so please free to chose the one you prefer.

1. Official Lambda resizer by AWS: full documentation here: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/resize-images-on-the-fly-with-amazon-s3-aws-lambda-and-amazon-api-gateway/.
This is based on sharp.js, claimed to be 4-5 times faster than ImageMagic (http://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/en/stable/)
Just download the ZIP from there and follow the steps above. You might just want to make sure that the packages in the package.json file are at the toppes version. If not, please run an npm install in order to generate the updated node_modules before you zip your index.js and node_modules folder together.

2. Resizer based on ImageMagic.
